# Task 8 (Docker. AWS Elastic Beanstalk)

Elastic Beanstalk: http://inshatan-cart-api-dev.eu-west-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/

Frontend application: https://d2v14ttltat414.cloudfront.net

FE Pull Request: https://github.com/inshatan/nodejs-aws-fe/pull/6

BE Pull Request: https://github.com/inshatan/nodejs-aws-be/pull/6


## EVALUATION CRITERIA:
    
* [x]  **1** - Dockerfile is prepared, image is building. Image size is minimised to be less than 500 MB. **Image size is equal to 102 MB**
* [x]  **2** - Dockerfile is optimized. Files that change more often and commands that depend on them should be included later, files and commands that change less should be at the top.
* [x]  **3** - Folders are added to .dockerignore, with explanations. At least 2 big directories should be excluded from build context. Elastic Beanstalk application is initialized.
* [x]  **4** - Environment is created and the app is deployed to the AWS cloud. You must provide a link to your GitHub repo with Cart API service or PR with created Dockerfile and related configurations.
* [x]  **5** - FE application is updated with Cart API endpoint. You must provide a PR with updates in your FE repository and OPTIONALLY link to deployed front-end app which makes proper API calls to your Cart service.



## Tasks

### TASK 8.1
      
- [x] Add **.dockerignore** file to minimize build context. Files and folders generated by the application or npm should be excluded. Provide explanations to why the folder was ignored.
- [x] OPTIONAL: add more folders to **.dockerignore** with explanations
- [x] Minimize docker image size by applying techniques found in the lecture to be **less than 500 MB**.
- [x] OPTIONAL: Minimize docker image size to **about 100 MB**.
- [x] Optimize image build times. Dockerfile commands that run npm install should not depend on typescript files.
- [x] OPTIONAL: Optimize build times by utilizing multistage builds.
- [ ] OPTIONAL: **Lint** Dockerfile.

### TASK 8.2

Deploy Cart API service with Elastic Beanstalk.
- [x] **Use** a **Dockerfile** from **TASK 8.1** to deploy your Cart API using AWS EB CLI.
- [x] **Initiate** an Elastic beanstalk application using the eb init command. Application name must follow the following convention {yours_github_account_login}-cart-api.
- [x] **Create a new environment** using the **_eb create_** command. An environment name must be short **but not less then four signs** (e.g _develop_, _test_, _prod_, etc). Use the **_--cname_** option **{yours_github_account_login}-cart-api-{environment_name}** so that Elastic Beanstalk will use it to create a proper domain name. Use the _**--singe**_ option to not use any Load Balancer for this environment.
- [x] **Investigate** AWS Elastic Beanstalk service in the AWS Console. **Walk through** EC2 resources that were created by Elastic Beanstalk
- [x] **Update** the app and deploy changes using the **_eb deploy_** command.
- [x] **Update FE app**: pull the latest version of the app from repo and replace **{cart}** API placeholder in _src/constants/apiPaths.ts_ using a Cart API url you get after successful deployment. Make sure your app starts to call Cart API when you add or remove items. Now after page refresh cart’s content might remain the same.

